and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out our
weekly email where we're sharing
actionable web and marketing tips useful
podcasts free guides bonus resources and
much much more each and every monday so
you can start your week off with a bang
sign up over at business growth dot
emails
joining us today we've got oliver duffy
lee's the founder over at authority
agency health agencies
stuck under 20k a month scale to 50k
plus oliver welcome to the show how you
doing sir
hey sam uh i'm really really good my
friend really really pleased to be here
good man looking forward to it so we're
gonna be chatting about a rather
controversial topic
how can sell
without sending the proposals
so
straight
straight away although let's jump into
it why why don't people need to send
proposals to close and win deals in
business
um yeah it's a great question dive
straight in so
one the first thing to say is obviously
you can sell with with the proposal but
what we're trying to do when we're
in the agency space specifically is
we're constantly trying to find ways to
differentiate ourselves because it's
quite a busy market it's quite saturated
and if you think about the way you're
currently selling most agencies are
currently selling is they are
basically selling based on proposals
and there's a few massive issues with
that
first thing is that clients tend to
ask for proposals very very soon
and they don't have that much space for
a really good discovery process right
okay and
if you think about what agencies are
paid for we're really paid for
solving a problem right that's right
that's kind of why we exist we're not
paid even though we think we are we're
not paid to sell services we're paid to
solve a problem and it's very very hard
for us to understand what problem we're
solving without a good discovery process
and my thinking came onto this
because i spent many many years building
massive massive proposals for clients
spending hours doing it
and
frankly
some of them
didn't get looked at and some of them
just missed the mark completely because
we'd missed this discovery process in
the meantime
and i don't know about you sam but the
more you get into this discovery part
and discovering the real problem of a
client you realize that actually the
sale is all about them it's not about
you at all
and if you're selling something to do
with your client and to do with their
problems
you don't really need a proposal to to
show them uh where their problem is and
where it needs fixing you just need to
really speak to them through that
problem and explain to you some how
you're going to solve it for them
so we're saying the
discovery process which is often pretty
early in the sales cycle so perhaps even
the first call if you've had a lead
whether that's come inbound or you've
generated it outbound for calls or
emails whatever
where we're actually talking to the
prospect taking time to i guess
understand their business their current
situation their desires their problems
their pain points their goals those kind
of things yeah that process itself is
more important than actually sending a
proposed document or quote doc or
whatever it may be
that's exactly that's exactly it and
that is the sales process so so the
discovery process instead of it being
a nice small pit at the front
uh let me just get to know you a bit
better that is the sales process um
as an agency i'm sure you have this
right you guys um are a very well
established agency and i'm sure you know
as much as you may tailor your services
a little bit to
each client you have a pretty good
system
right where you know how you're going to
help get your clients results fairly
regularly and i'm guessing i'm assuming
by the way
that that system is fairly solid you
don't change it too much from client to
client am i on the right lines or
yeah sure i mean for most of our work
will come inbound in in our case and
whether that's through the website or
through linkedin or another channel
there's typically a like you say a
discovery phone call
process zoom cool where we'll we'll have
a depending on the project we'll have a
few questions we need to understand
their world and where they need to get
to exactly and what about your actual
delivery when you're actually delivering
for clients
in terms of yeah in terms of actually
doing a project whether that's a website
or an seo campaign and something like
that you'll have exactly you'll probably
have an established system because you
know that works right
so um someone told us a long time ago i
don't know who told us this is massive
fallacy that the more
high um level a uh client then what the
higher amount of client pays the more
high ticket to use a horrible marketing
or sales word a project is the more
bespoke our system has to be the more
bespoke our solution has to be
actually when when clients are paying
you higher amounts of money they're paid
they're buying a system which has been
tried and tested thousands of times
and they can guarantee to work
so it's not that you have to go and
spend loads of time finding out and
building a proposal which is completely
bespoke to that person as an agency you
should have your system your word
creating results
and
your job in the sales process is to
align with what the client wants where
they want to be six months time 12
months time could be 90 days time
whatever your service is
and to make sure in that process that
your system is going to help them get
there
gotcha
okay so it sounds like more
more of a case of understanding this
this
prospective client's needs wants desires
is is quite quite a key key point to
this because
like you said chances are for running a
business we've already got a process to
actually deliver the product or the
service or whatever it is we do on the
basis we have got a good product which
if you're in business you should do so
with that said how do we tackle
the question that probably comes up a
heck of a lot for me and i imagine most
people that are selling whether business
owners entrepreneurs whatever it may be
one of the first things they'll say is
when they get on the phone to perhaps
they drop your message email can you
send me a proposal can you send me a
quote how do we how do we actually
handle that
it's a great question i mean
um what tell you what you shouldn't do
is send a proposal right because based
on what we've just said before like how
can you know what that client really
wants and and where they want to get to
and and and frankly
uh what their key problems are at the
moment you probably can't so
um that's that's generally a red flag if
someone's going to come and say to you
can you just send me a proposal um and
you'd need to try and push back and say
sure we're very very happy to send you a
proposal eventually but we'd love to
spend some time with you and get to know
you a bit better first now uh the way we
look at this is kind of
three types of prospects or three types
of client in out there in in the ether
sam okay you've got
unaware clients um you've got problem
aware and you've got solution aware
now
unaware prospects you don't really want
to bother with them because just frankly
they haven't got a problem at all
they're very very happy everything's
dandy with them
problem wearing solution to where they
both have a problem right so problem
aware clients
they can feel that things aren't working
so in your case maybe it's their
website's not working or maybe they're
just not ranking high enough on google
um but they don't know what to do about
it right they haven't decided what to do
they can see the problem they haven't
decided what to do solutionware clients
have said um this is the problem and the
solution is to go and find an agency to
fix it for us
and what that means is they're shopping
now when
clients start shopping
basically it means they're going to get
in touch with a few agencies they might
run a formalized rfp process or they
might just do it informally and just ask
people for proposals so if someone just
comes out the blue and ask you for a
proposal you better believe you're not
gonna be the only agency they've asked
for a proposal in the first place and
generally speaking when you've got a few
agencies competing against each other in
that sort of situation
this decision is made based on
price right generally speaking and we
call this commoditization this is
turning an agency service i mean if
you're selling a pen for example this is
a commodity i can compare this to loads
of other different types of pen
it does the same thing
sure agencies it's very unfair to
commoditize agency services because
they're very nuanced right and there's
loads of variables inside so
ideally you want to stay away from those
solution aware clients who are just
shopping um for lots of different
agencies
okay and before we dive into this a bit
deeper oliver are there any so you said
there's three types of potential clients
unaware problemware solution aware yeah
are there any telltale signs
to identify each one
so i guess we can make best use of our
time and also the prospective customers
time to see if they're going to be a fit
or not yeah so
exactly what you said so when you ask me
when people ask you for a proposal
straight away that's going to be a
solution away client because they want
to create a situation
where
they have
five or three agency proposals in front
of them they can compare them they can
treat them like commodities and they can
just choose their best based on they're
pretty on their budget i would say
a problem where client
is going to be someone who um you
connect with through your marketing
which is why by the way uh your
marketing better be around the problems
your clients have and and problem
focused pain point focused
um but they're going to be more
interested in you talking about their
problem um their current situation and
where they want to get to
and there's this great phrase that a
mentor of mine told me years ago but
they he said if you can
articulate your clients problems better
than they can
they will automatically assume you can
solve them for them you can solve it for
them
and so it's really important that you
understand exactly where um
you've spoken to a lot of clients you
understand what their pain points feel
like what their problems feel like and
you're able to articulate the impact
that's having on their business and if
the client you're speaking to the
prospect you're speaking to
doesn't immediately know or can't really
see
the impact that that problem is having
on their business
and you're educating them on it then
it's the sign that you're speaking to a
really good problem aware client that
isn't shopping
gotcha
so
does this come down to or does it link
back to the discovery
process then in terms of
actually i guess
taking the time to ask the right
questions and perhaps you can
help anyone tuning in oliver with some
some of your juiciest questions i guess
that comes to when it comes to discovery
some of the key things that you need to
establish early doors early on in the
sales conversation so ultimately we can
find out which one of the three of these
types of clients we're dealing with
whether they're going to be a fit good
fit for our company and whether they've
got a problem that's big enough that
they actually want to get it solved and
if it's something we're going to be able
to help them out with
yeah so i mean one of the things we look
at when we're prospecting and we're
speaking to prospects early on and this
is what we teach our agency clients as
well
is looking for five-star prospects um
and basically that means people who are
friendly and cooperative
um a solution-aware client or someone
who's who's just gonna ask you for a
possible straightaway they won't be
friendly and cooperative they'll be
saying
just send me a proposal that's not
friendly it's not cooperative right so
needs to be friendly cooperative they
need to know what they want
they need to work when they want it
they need to be able to be happy to in
enter a dialogue with you and they need
to be happy to accept your help right so
those are five things you're looking for
in a five-star prospect really important
point in when it comes to prospecting
don't try and create five-star prospects
find them
you need to find those people
and if you look at that framework of
those five those five things you're
looking for in a prospect um and you
will find them if you're doing enough um
sort of authority marketing legion
activity you'll find them then the sales
process is going to be super simple
super easy
red flag is is this you know people turn
up at a meeting they've got that pitch
me face right that face where it's like
i'm not going to tell you anything about
me
or my business just show me why we
should even be talking to you right now
let's pitch me face and the best thing
that's going to happen when you speak to
someone like that and you go through a
process with some of that is you're
going to get
negotiated down massively and you can
end up doing a project with average
results for no money
right and this is ultimately why we need
to work with problem aware clients
because those people are much more
likely to
pay us better and actually work with us
better
um that didn't exactly answer your
question what was your question it was
about what questions we should ask right
yeah so that i mean that was that was
good for some context but there's also
for anyone that i suppose wants to run a
killer discovery and we've had episodes
in the past on discovery course we don't
need to spend hours and hours on it but
some of your
most
useful favorite key questions that you
like to ask on these initial sales
discovery calls that ultimately bring up
the useful information from our
prospects so we can quickly determine
are they a problem where pro client
do they have an issue we can solve are
they actually someone we want to be
doing business with
and just some of the key things that you
like to ask to get that intel okay so
first two questions when someone comes
onto discovery call uh may feel cringy
asking this um but bear with me
um
why now and why us
you so when you start the call why now
and why us those two questions are going
to be really really good so first of all
a five-star prospect is not going to
answer those questions well
um they're not going to want to go with
your with on along your path with that
but if it is a five-star prospect why
now why us you're going to get some good
information there you're going to get
information about they have a problem
that and not only they have a problem
they have a problem that needs solving
now right
the why ask question is going to be
great because you're going to get
insight into
uh first of all what if what parts of
your marketing is working really well
they'll say things like well you know
i've been following you on linkedin for
a while or i saw that ad or you just
popped up on google good insight there
but they're also going to start telling
you what they like about your approach
and what they like about the way you are
going about this process so why now why
us amazing discovery call questions
generally speaking if you want to run a
free-flowing discovery there are four
levels you need to go through
one is you need to go through facts
people often miss the facts part they go
straight into problems but
without establishing the facts we can't
um work out what the problems are so
from an seo point of view you want to
know from where the website is getting
most of their traffic from first right
before we dive into we're not getting
any traffic let's understand where the
traffic is coming from so facts then
problems then impacts what are those
what impacts these problems having and
then the causes
and if you have all that information um
you've got a pretty good understanding
of where the problem are problem is but
in a discovery call
we we work on a process called gap
selling you heard of gap selling yeah
we've had keenan on the show actually a
while oh my god a year or so ago
absolute legend keenan um
so yeah um i've definitely drunk
keenan's kool-aid for sure
and um
the idea here is to establish where they
want to get to right
so in a discovery call it's not just
about doom and gloom
it's about ideally if if we were to work
together and we were to get you some
amazing results where do you want to be
in six months where do you want to be in
12 months
and
really actually we want to establish
that gap and reinforce that gap and
actually stretch that gap in every sales
interaction whether it's in dms whether
it's in discovery call whether it's in
the sales call
we're always anchoring this gap and
going back to it
and just to be completely clear sam like
we're not stretching the gap and
promising ridiculous results for no
reason we're doing this in a way where
we find people who we can definitely get
them there and we're just reminding them
that that's where we're going quite a
lot of the time
gotcha so it sounds like some of these
questions are helping us understand the
current state of this prospective
customer where they are right now and
their desired future state i.e where do
they want to get to where do we need to
get you to to basically be really happy
with the results and get the desired
revenue goals you've got or whatever
whatever their hopes and dreams are yeah
um
a lot of this is
for lack of a better term information
gathering based
do you
at what stage and you might be working
towards this all of us so at what stage
do we present
our product or solution if we think it's
gonna actually help them
instead of
doing the dreaded i don't know go back
to your desk write up a proposal for
five days and then realize that the
prospects only flip to the pricing page
of the fifty dot page the proposed
document anyway
yeah this is a great one so
the first thing is
if you were to do a proposal
it should be basically the same
for every client
right because we shouldn't be in
this position maybe with the exception
of creative agencies
or
design agencies that need to show
illustrations of what design they're
going to be creating generally speaking
your your proposal is going to be
process based
right it's going to be about how you're
going to achieve those results well do
we really need slides um to show them
that or can we talk them through it um
fairly straightforwardly
and one of the things we're we're very
keen in avoiding in a sales position is
push back right i don't know right let
me ask you have you ever had pushback
when you've been in a pitch situation
i get pushed back in most situations
[Laughter]
so here's the interesting thing about
pushback you can't get pushback unless
you push first right it's just that's
just the nature of it so what we want to
do is we want actually to be pulled
through the sales process by the
prospect
and and the way we do that is by asking
them um quite regularly once we've
established a really good gap and it's
probably in the second in the second uh
uh call so i would have a very short
discovery call i wouldn't go that deep
into it i would be i would make sure i'm
qualifying in that discovery call then i
take the discovery process into the
first half of the sales call okay right
so on the on the on this discovery call
the first call we call it a triage call
um
we would be basically saying establish a
gap and can we help this person are they
good prospect if we say yes tick great
we can do that in 10 minutes by the way
we take our discovery process and we do
the proper gap stretching in the in the
first half of the second call
okay
so in that sales call which is when they
need to be
um
excited about working with you before
you go into telling them what you're
going to do you've just spent half an
hour to 40 minutes stretching your gap
and basically explaining where they're
going to get to right
and then at that point strategically
asking okay cool so where do you think
we should go from here
is a really good way to fight you start
that process and then what you're going
to get is questions like
um
well you might say they might say
something like well i'm hoping you'd say
that
or they might say something well you
know how does this all work great
question to have right like how does
this all work they're inviting you
to tell you to tell them how how you're
going to work with them in which case
you're being pulled through you're not
being pushed back and when you're in
that that flow
and please at this point resist the urge
to say right let me get my deck out
um you don't have to do that you can
break your offer into really really
small manageable pieces okay so a good a
really simple way of doing that would be
um the problems we're solving recapping
the problems we're solving and therefore
top line solutions
and after you've done that i would
probably ask again where do you think we
should go from here
at which point you can talk about the
promise that you're going to make so
this is our guarantee
around where we're going to get you
there and
i'm from a coaching background as well
so we like models and we at that point
we show them the model of how we work
right so for example this thing behind
me right we might show them that at that
point
where do you think we should go from
here while there's a couple things you
haven't talked about then
logistics how it works timing and price
now
you don't need slides to do that you can
talk someone through that but here's a
really really important thing to
understand sam
if you are off a cold lead or if a new
completely new business if you're trying
to sell something massive like a big
campaign no proposal selling won't work
it's just too much of a risk the way
this works is to sell something um quite
small what we call an intro offer or a
no-brainer offer
so
people can so for the client it's like i
understand your process i understand i'm
sold on on how you're going to get me
there and actually this first step that
i need to take today right now is pretty
risk-free it's not massively expensive i
can see how it's going to be useful to
me it might be a workshop it might be a
paid audit
it might be like a very like a one a
30-day sprint or a 90-day sprint
something small
and they're able just to say you know
what i'm ready to make that first step
does that make sense
it makes sense yes it's something we do
as well on larger scale projects like a
paid assessment or a scoping call
depending on kind of large-scale web
projects so it's it's something that's
really useful right like i love that
strategy because there are and it's
something from my experience i don't
know if you're the same oliver and this
is just me rifting off here but it's
something that you kind of feel so once
you've been doing this for a while like
in
for us for example we've got i don't
know products from a grand to 50k plus
so
some products on the lower end you might
be able to
do a good discovery and get deals moving
fairly quick um especially if a
prospect's been following my content or
knows our company well they've got brand
affinity with us so they might be ready
to do business pretty quick however if
it's a larger scale project typically
it's not just one decision maker
involved there's probably
five or six decision makers maybe that's
the
vp of sales maybe vp of marketing maybe
you've got a chief intelligence officer
chief technology officer maybe you've
got finance involved so for those kind
of larger bigger meatier deals where
you've got a lot of decision makers a
lot of cogs in the
a lot of cogs and wheels turning
these kind of paid audits are not only
good because it saves you messing around
building a proposal for free
it gets your foot in the door and also
gives them a taste of what it's like
working with you builds up that
relationship that confidence um the
stability that you can deliver that
small
thing and as sander calls it a monkey
paw getting your foot in the door and
then working your way in
so so this is actually where we why we
came up with the intro offer because
we um
we were spending a lot of time um
working with big international companies
like volvo for example
and what happened um post 2008 and going
back a while now
procurement departments got really big
and not only did they get really big but
they got super involved man and it was
hard to get anything through now what
what this wasn't just frustrating to us
this was frustrating to our clients who
were the project managers
what we realized was if every
procurement department had a threshold
and if the project was over 7 000 euros
or 10 000 euros then it had to go
through the procurement process but not
only that it had to go through a pitch
of three agencies and blah blah blah so
what we did was we started dividing
projects up into sub 10 000 euros and
and
what we realized was what we could do to
start every project was we could create
this intro offer this starter offer
which
went under the procurement department
meant we started off and when the bigger
project happened and there were other
agencies involved we were always going
to win it because we were already
basically doing the project
that was the first time that started and
we realized actually no hold on this is
a
a genius thing that we can take to
any client because it reduces that risk
and the thing is um not okay so is risk
for a new business is risk for a client
in terms of finances do we trust this
agency well am i going to give them 20
grand a month because i've just started
with them probably not right but there's
also risk for the agency what if the
client is an absolute nightmare what if
they just don't pay you on time what if
they're horrible to deal with well for
that reason
start with a small chunk with an intro
offer
and then you can decide afterwards if
they're worth the trouble or not yeah
it's it's definitely a great tool for
like you say getting your foot in the
door realizing if you if you're a good
good match to work together
yeah building up that trust
but so linking it to no proposal selling
um it's that's a key ingredient because
if you're trying to sell
uh 5k retainers or 10k retainers without
a proposal you're going to struggle what
you might do is sell it after an intro
offer but the intro offer is your way of
basically starting working with someone
without them even realizing they've made
a decision to start working with you
yes
yeah yeah let's let's look at another
angle so i use myself as an example yeah
so like i say for these bigger projects
initially i was really apprehensive
almost a little bit nervous of actually
asking for people's money because i'm so
years ago i was so used to just blindly
saying yeah we'll do a quote you do a
proposal no problem might take me hours
and hours to put together and then it's
the classic you email across the
proposal document
ask how things are going maybe you send
a follow-up email yeah literally
crickets nothing nothing back maybe you
hear from them a month later oh we went
with our existing company or we went
with another vendor
and that that's the end of that whereas
like you say this um this strategy is is
something that can be utilized well for
certain businesses especially but
how do you
how did you build up i guess the
confidence really just to say look this
is our this is our introductory offer
we're actually doing a paid order paid
assessment or whatever that is
um
it does involve a
a small financial investment any
recommendations for people that are
listening thinking that that sounds
really good i'm just not sure how i can
actually deliver it or ask for it yeah
so if you're not if you're thinking that
it means that you don't believe that you
can deliver a workshop or an audit which
is actually valuable so
the first the transformation that needs
to happen internally and you need to you
need to believe and you need to think
like a consultant you need to believe
that you can spend two hours with
someone in a workshop environment or
spend five hours on an audit and
actually deliver something that your
client thinks that was incredibly
valuable
it's an internal thing one of the one of
the things i'm not sure if you if you
follow the wow company but they do they
did um they released a bench press
report agency report every year
um this year uh one of the things that
came out was that consultants
consultancies always outperform agencies
in terms of profitability and one of the
key reasons why is because they think
about solving problems and not selling
services
now when you take a problem-solving
mindset
products like workshops or audits
become
really really valuable and they become a
higher perceived value because you're
giving your customer clarity
on exactly where they need to go and the
problems they need to solve
so if you're sitting there thinking i
can't ask someone for for money for a
workshop
spend the day and deliver and design a
killer workshop
and um you won't have that problem
anymore
and if you need a workshop actually i
can give you one if you need a workshop
structure get in touch with me on
linkedin and i'll just give you hours
because it works with it's pretty
transferable
cool
so
we talk quite a bit about
prospects that are problem aware yeah
for we talked about a bit earlier when
we're mentioning best practices for
discovery calls
now
for
people on the other end of the spectrum
that are solution aware and that might
mention earlier early in the cool we
want a quote we want a proposal
we're speaking to a few other agencies
they might not even say that but like
you say the chances are if they're
asking for something like that straight
away they're probably are comparing two
or three maybe more companies
um or maybe we're even in ourselves cool
with them face to face or over zoom and
straight away they're demanding semi-pro
so i want to know more about your
company why why are you guys so great
they're quite upfront quite pushy
are these prospects that we should just
disregard straight away and just say
look i don't think we're gonna be the
best match or is there a way that we can
try and
should we still try and work around all
of our other specific ways to deal with
these prospects and can we still get
them on site could they still be a fit
for our company
uh there could be i mean practicality is
massively underrated in in business and
and also in agency world so
the real answer here
is that you
should follow the same sales process for
every prospect so if a prospect is
trying to push you out your sales
process you should
say look this is our process take it or
leave it now here's where practicality
comes in if your marketing is not on
point and you haven't got enough leads
coming into the business
you're going to have to be more flexible
and you're going to have to bend more to
your whatever the prospect says and if
they demand a proposal and you haven't
got another 10 leads waiting for you
then probably you're going to have to
pay their way
so the real answer to this question is
you need to be
hot on your marketing making sure you're
building authority around your agency
brand and your personal brand so that
you've got a nice stream of leads coming
into your business so that when a
prospect is demanding you give them a
proposal and it's not part of your
process
you can just say i'm really sorry but
that's not how we work and um the best
of luck in the future if you don't have
that queue or that pipeline then
obviously
practically you're gonna have to play
their game right
as the old saying saying goes a healthy
pipeline full of qualified prospects
cures most business and sales problems
so
yeah it's not all exactly yeah yeah
exactly one of those you've got to learn
the hard way um
yeah so that makes perfect sense
in terms of so you mentioned earlier and
i appreciate this is going to vary a lot
depending on the company depending on
the solution they sell the average deal
size and their sales process but you
mentioned that the discovery should be
on the first call and then the second
call is more of a chat through i guess a
recap of that discovery and how your
product or service fits into that and
then kind of sharing how it's going to
fix their pain points and the pricing
and next steps should that always be a
second call should it ever be on the
first call all in one
i would never do a first call on one um
so the first call is i i honestly it's
more for you right so
you wanna on that first call you wanna
just make sure before you dedicate an
hour of your time with someone in a
sales call you want to just make sure
that this person
is a five-star prospect and is ready to
buy from you um
so that's really what that's about one
of the other questions we ask in that
first call that triage call sam is is
this a later thing or is this a sooner
thing basically we're gauging how urgent
this is for them right now because again
we don't want to spend an hour with
someone if it's not really urgent and on
their agenda right so
the first call look at it more as um
making sure that they are a perfect
prospect for you making sure they're
ready to buy pretty soon and then and
also discovering what their key problems
are they should be looking at at least
three key problems that you can solve
and then in in the second call the sales
call accelerator session breakthrough
session small tip by the way
name your calls don't don't call them
strategy sessions or whatever else
because that doesn't sound that
interesting you can name your calls
um
yeah on that call make sure you spend at
least half an hour stretching the gap
for them so they feel
like
they
are in a place where they can reach
those goals and a small tip on that as
well
if
when you stretch the gap in terms of gap
selling you've got to do
where you are now and you've got to do
where you want to be
one thing
is quite interesting is if you switch
those things around i learned this from
one of our coaches
is if you go problems first and then you
go so where you are now where you want
to be um what happens is
they will spend the whole the rest of
the call just working out how they can
get out of the problems they're in
and their vision for where they can go
is quite limited it's just about how i
can get out problems
if you go and start with where do you
want to be first right they'll have much
more vision they won't be anchored in
that problem mindset they'll be much
more bold in where they want to get to
and then you can go down into where they
are now
and the gap is literally bigger right
the gap will lift that you can stretch
will literally be bigger so if you're
going to do it that way i would suggest
going for the results they want first
and then going back to the problems and
comparing that really important to get
specificity as well like so for example
if you're talking about website visitors
how many organic website visitors do you
want every month
um
i don't know a hundred thousand okay how
many have you got now fifteen thousand
okay so you've got you've not just got
the gap you've got a specific 85 000
organic visitors gap that's a really
important thing to get as well
cool so
and that's useful and to wrap things up
in terms of
so propose so i suppose this is quite
different because this is almost like
live selling right because you're doing
everything on the on the across the two
calls or however many calls you have in
your process discovery and then
recapping stretching the gap and then
presenting how your solution is going to
fix these problems bring their desired
result where they actually want to get
to
one thing i like to ask all kinds of
consultants and people that come on the
show that share ideas is what is the
best way in your opinion oliver to ask
for the business because there's nothing
worse than
doing one of these if calls or
presentations and then someone still
says at the end that all sounds great
but can you just detail it in an email
and i'll get back to you um what is your
best practice for actually asking for
the business asking for the order
do you mean at the end of the sales call
or do you mean asking for the sales call
itself
no i mean actually asking for the
business itself so let's say we've we've
had a great fit prospect we've run a
killer discovery we've done everything
on the second call in terms of
presenting how we're gonna get the job
done
what how how do we close it off how do
we how do we bring it in
okay so um first thing is if you're
getting objections so this is what hap
so what often happens is at this time is
um
is you if you're getting that that point
of
um let me just think about it it means
there's objections there but it means
they're not telling you
so the first
point of handling objections is to find
out what the objections are so if you
get that question if you get that
statement saying look i just need to
think about it let me think about if you
can send me an email a good question to
ask at that point would be i'm really
curious um what would make this uh this
deal an absolute no-brainer for you
um what what would make this
our agency
an absolute no-brainer for you to go
ahead and you'll get them talking about
either areas that maybe you haven't
quite hit or things they're not that
happy about okay and then you can start
addressing those objections
a quick tip when it comes to objections
what tends to happen when people have
objections is we tend to play objection
tennis so someone will hit an objection
over to you you'll hit back an objection
um
counter objection thing then they'll hit
back an objection
one of the best things to do when you
get objections is to just ask them to
explain more um ask them to go into that
bit deeper and what you'll find is a lot
of the time when people when you ask
them to explain their objection more is
they start to almost talk themselves out
of it a little bit so don't play
objection tennis but no i would say in
that point um sam um don't ask for the
business but just say what would make
this a no-brainer for you and just see
what they say
final thing on that don't think you have
to close everyone with a call
i don't know i'm sure there are loads of
sales trainers that say you absolutely
must get their money and credit card on
the call i just think there are some
people that need to do need time to
think about it and you also have a and
if they want to pay on the call take the
card but like then there are probably
some people out there that just need
some space and that's okay doesn't mean
you've lost a deal
nice one that's a good way to to wrap
things up oliver so with that i want to
thank you very much for coming on the
show sir really enjoyed the chat thanks
so much i enjoyed it too yeah no worries
and with that please do share more about
how everyone tuning in can connect with
you learn from yourself and anything you
want to share with our audience
cool so yeah i mean look i'm on linkedin
all the time hit me up oliver duffy lee
if you're an agency owner stuck under
20k and you want to grow a bit faster
and you want to just chat to me about
how to do it um click the link on in the
show notes
or just send me a dm on linkedin and i
would love to connect with you
thank you very much sir and with that if
you enjoyed today's show as always a
quick rating on your podcast channel or
subscribe on youtube is always
appreciated and we shall catch you on
the next episode cheers
see ya